pages/docs/features/annotations.mdx, before:

import { Steps, Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Annotations

## Overview

Annotations add valuable context to your reports by linking notes to specific dates. Use them to highlight events such as product launches, marketing campaigns, or data anomalies, so viewers can clearly understand what influenced the metrics.

You can view Annotations directly on time-series charts and in the Annotations side-panel across all reports.

## Adding Annotations

<Steps>

{<h3>From a time-series Insights report, create Annotations from the bottom of the chart.</h3>}

Charts with time intervals (such as line, stacked line, column, and stacked column charts) are time-series charts and support Annotations.

Hover over the horizontal axis to locate the time interval, then click the “+” button to create an annotation for that point in time.

![annotations1](/annotations1.png)

{<h3>Alternatively, open the Annotations side panel to create an annotation.</h3>}

Select the **Annotations** tab (above the query builder) and click the “+” button to add a new annotation.

![annotations2](/annotations2.png)

{<h3>Select a date and time, then enter a description.</h3>}

Add one or more tags to categorize the annotation.

![annotations3](/annotations3.png)

<Callout type="info">
    Use tags consistently (e.g., Launches, Outages, Holidays, and even Team names) so it is easy to filter and spot patterns.
</Callout>

</Steps>

## Viewing Annotations

Annotations appear as markers directly on the chart. Hover over a marker to view its details.

For example, in the chart below, you can see 1 annotation in March, 4 in May, and 2 in July.

![annotations4](/annotations4.png)

### Annotations Side-panel

Open the Annotations side panel (available in all reports) to view all annotations for your report's date range in one place. Select the **Annotations** tab (above the query builder) to open the side-panel.

From the side panel, you can:
- **Browse** all annotations within your report's date range.
- **Hide/Show** annotations
- **Sort** by date
- **Filter** Annotations by tags

![annotations5](/annotations5.png)

When you save a report, Mixpanel also saves your current annotation filters. The report will then display only the annotations that match your selected tag filters.

## Editing and Deleting Annotations

Hover over any existing annotations to see available actions. Click on the "pencil" button to edit the description and add/remove tags. Click the "trash" button to delete the annotation.

![annotations6](/annotations6.png)

<Callout type="warning">
    Annotations apply globally across the project. Any edits or deletions affect not only the current report but all reports in the project.
</Callout>

## Collaboration and Visibility

- Users with a project role above consumer can create annotations, and each annotation displays the creator’s name.
- Annotations are visible across all reports in the project.
- Use tags and filters to control which annotations appear at the report level.

Commit message:

annotations timeline image and reference (#2340)

pages/docs/features/annotations.mdx, after:

import { Steps, Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Annotations

## Overview

Annotations add valuable context to your reports by linking notes to specific dates. Use them to highlight events such as product launches, marketing campaigns, or data anomalies, so viewers can clearly understand what influenced the metrics.

You can view Annotations directly on time-series charts and in the Annotations side-panel across all reports.

## Adding Annotations

<Steps>

{<h3>Open the Annotations side panel to create an annotation.</h3>}

Select the **Annotations** tab (above the query builder) and click the “+” button to add a new annotation.

![annotations2](/annotations2.png)

{<h3>Alternatively, you can create annotations from the bottom of a time-series Insights report.</h3>}

Charts with time intervals (such as line, stacked line, column, and stacked column charts) are time-series charts and support Annotations.

Hover over the horizontal axis to locate the time interval, then click the “+” button to create an annotation for that point in time.

![annotations1](/annotations1.png)

You can also switch over to the [Annotation Timeline](/docs/features/annotations#annotations-timeline) to see all annotations within the date range and create a new annotation.

{<h3>Select a date and time, then enter a description.</h3>}

Add one or more tags to categorize the annotation.

![annotations3](/annotations3.png)

<Callout type="info">
    Use tags consistently (e.g., Launches, Outages, Holidays, and even Team names) so it is easy to filter and spot patterns.
</Callout>

</Steps>

## Viewing Annotations

Annotations appear as markers directly on the chart. Hover over a marker to view its details.

For example, in the chart below, you can see 1 annotation in March, 4 in May, and 2 in July.

![annotations4](/annotations4.png)

### Annotations Side-panel

Open the Annotations side panel (available in all reports) to view all annotations for your report's date range in one place. Select the **Annotations** tab (above the query builder) to open the side-panel.

From the side panel, you can:
- **Browse** all annotations within your report's date range.
- **Hide/Show** annotations
- **Sort** by date
- **Filter** Annotations by tags

![annotations5](/annotations5.png)

When you save a report, Mixpanel also saves your current annotation filters. The report will then display only the annotations that match your selected tag filters.

### Annotations Timeline

Open the Annotations Timeline (available in time-series Insights reports) to view all annotations for your report's date range in one place. Once you are on a time-series Insights report (such as a line chart), select the **charts and annotations** view option to open the Annotations Timeline.

From the timeline, you can:
- **View** annotations in a timeline format relative to their position on the time-series chart.
- **Browse** all annotations within your report's date range.
- **Hide/Show** annotations
- **Filter** Annotations by tags

![annotations7](/annotations7.png)

## Editing and Deleting Annotations

Hover over any existing annotations to see available actions. Click on the "pencil" button to edit the description and add/remove tags. Click the "trash" button to delete the annotation.

![annotations6](/annotations6.png)

<Callout type="warning">
    Annotations apply globally across the project. Any edits or deletions affect not only the current report but all reports in the project.
</Callout>

## Collaboration and Visibility

- Users with a project role above consumer can create annotations, and each annotation displays the creator’s name.
- Annotations are visible across all reports in the project.
- Use tags and filters to control which annotations appear at the report level.
