pages/docs/cohort-sync/integrations/insider.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Insider

## Overview

Export Mixpanel cohorts to Insider to create custom segments that you can apply in your Insider campaigns. Manage the Insider integration from the Mixpanel integrations page.

## Permissions

You must be a Mixpanel project admin to enable the Insider integration.

## Enable the Integration

1. To enable the integration, select **Integrations** under the **Data Management** tab in the top navigation bar.

![insider 1 Image](/insider1.png)

2. From the Integrations page, select the Insider dropdown, and select **Connect**.

<Callout type="info">
    If you set a User ID Property, it should be a Mixpanel user property that matches the email or phone number set in Insider.
</Callout>

![insider 2 Image](/insider2.png)


3. The Insider integration will show a **Connected** tag in the UI once the connection succeeds.

## Matching Users between Insider and Mixpanel

Mixpanel only exports identified user profiles to match to Insider - users without user profile properties (i.e. anonymous users) will not export.

Insider will use either the user's email (set via the `$email` user property) or phone number (set via the `$phone` user property) to match the Mixpanel user profile to Insider. As a result, not all exported profiles may match if these values are missing or differ from the emails and phone numbers stored on Insider.

Note that exports are used solely for matching user identities between products - the integration will not send the full set of a user's profile properties to Insider, nor will it generate new users in Insider.

## Export a Cohort

To export a cohort to Insider, navigate to Cohorts by clicking in the **Data Management** tab and select **Cohorts**.

Select the cohort that you want to export. Click on the three-dot icon on the right side of the cohort.

Click Export to > Insider. Select either one-time sync or dynamic sync. Click **Start Sync**.

![insider 3 Image](/insider3.png)

## Sync Types

This integration supports two types of exports: one-time export and dynamic sync. When you generate a one-time export or dynamic sync, it overwrites the previous export with an updated export that reflects users who qualify for the cohort at the time of export.

### One-Time Export
In a one-time export, Mixpanel sends Insider a static export of users who currently qualify for the cohort. The cohort data will not be updated in Insider after a one-time export.

### Dynamic Sync
In dynamic sync, Mixpanel initiates sync between a cohort and Insider every 15 minutes. The exported cohort will be updated every 15 minutes to reflect the most recent list of users in a cohort.

## Select the Custom Segment in Insider

Once the export completes, you will see a custom segment reflecting the set of users from your Mixpanel cohort. (e.g. "7days-cart-abandoners")

![insider 4 Image](/insider4.png)

Commit message:

Addressing Sendbird Feedback 2 (#2354)
* add reference to list property filter toggles and example

* add clarification that delete user profiles does not remove the events associated with the user

* add specific menu path for adjusting sessions settings

* syntax

* include step-by-step on how to delete a board and implications for linked reports

* add callout to reach out if owners are no longer with company

* clarify where to manage cohorts + syntax error

* remove logo from quickstart page

* remove outdated image and add reference to old name for Events tab (live view)

* clarify that assets are not removed when a user is removed

* add specific reference to historical import leading to different metrics when viewing the same report

* add note about changing display names via Lexicon

* add invite limit

* clarify custom webhook as a solution for exporting to non-native cohort sync destinations

* syntax

* update location and screenshot of data deletion

* update cohort sync setup instruction to reflect new UI

---------

Co-authored-by: mherrman <mikey.herrman@mixpanel.com>

pages/docs/cohort-sync/integrations/insider.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Insider

## Overview

Export Mixpanel cohorts to Insider to create custom segments that you can apply in your Insider campaigns. Manage the Insider integration from the Mixpanel integrations page.

## Permissions

You must be a Mixpanel project admin to enable the Insider integration.

## Enable the Integration

1. Select **Settings > Integrations** tab in the bottom left navigation bar of Mixpanel.

2. From the Integrations page, select the Insider dropdown, and select **Connect**.

<Callout type="info">
    If you set a User ID Property, it should be a Mixpanel user property that matches the email or phone number set in Insider.
</Callout>

![insider 2 Image](/insider2.png)


3. The Insider integration will show a **Connected** tag in the UI once the connection succeeds.

## Matching Users between Insider and Mixpanel

Mixpanel only exports identified user profiles to match to Insider - users without user profile properties (i.e. anonymous users) will not export.

Insider will use either the user's email (set via the `$email` user property) or phone number (set via the `$phone` user property) to match the Mixpanel user profile to Insider. As a result, not all exported profiles may match if these values are missing or differ from the emails and phone numbers stored on Insider.

Note that exports are used solely for matching user identities between products - the integration will not send the full set of a user's profile properties to Insider, nor will it generate new users in Insider.

## Export a Cohort

To export a cohort to Insider, navigate to Cohorts by clicking in the **Data Management** tab and select **Cohorts**.

Select the cohort that you want to export. Click on the three-dot icon on the right side of the cohort.

Click Export to > Insider. Select either one-time sync or dynamic sync. Click **Start Sync**.

![insider 3 Image](/insider3.png)

## Sync Types

This integration supports two types of exports: one-time export and dynamic sync. When you generate a one-time export or dynamic sync, it overwrites the previous export with an updated export that reflects users who qualify for the cohort at the time of export.

### One-Time Export
In a one-time export, Mixpanel sends Insider a static export of users who currently qualify for the cohort. The cohort data will not be updated in Insider after a one-time export.

### Dynamic Sync
In dynamic sync, Mixpanel initiates sync between a cohort and Insider every 15 minutes. The exported cohort will be updated every 15 minutes to reflect the most recent list of users in a cohort.

## Select the Custom Segment in Insider

Once the export completes, you will see a custom segment reflecting the set of users from your Mixpanel cohort. (e.g. "7days-cart-abandoners")

![insider 4 Image](/insider4.png)
