pages/docs/cohort-sync/integrations/segment.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Segment

## Overview

 This integration allows you to export Cohorts of users from Mixpanel to Segment so that you can better target users across many downstream connections.
 
 ## Permissions
You must be a Mixpanel project admin to enable the Segment integration.

## Enable the Integration

This connection requires set up on both Segment and Mixpanel.

### Segment Setup

The connection requires a Segment Write Key. You can obtain this key via Segment's UI: 

1. Log into your Segment workspace and click **Sources** under **Connections** in the menu bar on the left.

2. Click **Add Source** button on the right side above the sources table.

3. Search for **Mixpanel Cohorts**, select and hit next

![Segment 1 Image](/segment1.png)

4. Create a Mixpanel Cohorts source.

![Segment 2 Image](/segment2.png)

5. Copy the** Write Key** displayed there.

![Segment 3 Image](/segment3.png)

### Mixpanel Setup

We will use the Write Key from Segment to enable the connection in Mixpanel.

1. Select **Integrations** under the **Data Management** tab in the top navigation bar.

![Segment 4 Image](/segment4.png)

2. Then select Segment, click **Connect**, and paste the** Write Key** that you generated in Segment.

<Callout type="info">
    If you set a User ID Property, it should be a Mixpanel user property that matches the Segment User ID.
</Callout>

![Segment 5 Image](/segment5.png)

3. Click **Continue** to complete the process.

## Export a Cohort

To export a Mixpanel cohort into Segment.

1. Navigate to the **Cohorts** page under **Data Management**.

2. Select the overflow menu on cohort that you want to export and click Export to... → Segment.

![Segment 6 Image](/segment6.png)

3. Select either one-time sync or dynamic sync, Click **Start Sync**.

## Sync Types

There are two types of sync: one-time and dynamic. When you generate a one-time export or dynamic sync, it overwrites the previous export with an updated export that reflects users who qualify for the cohort at the time of export.

### One-Time
In this sync, Mixpanel sends Segment the static set of users who currently qualify for the cohort. The cohort data will not be updated in Segment after a one-time export.

### Dynamic
In dynamic sync, Mixpanel initiates sync between a cohort and Segment every 15 minutes. The exported cohort will be updated every 15 minutes to reflect the most recent list of users in a cohort.

## Verifying in Segment 
Once the export completes, you can open the debugger on the source you created in Segment above and you'll see "identify" calls flowing in for each user that has been added or removed from the cohort.

![Segment 7 Image](/segment7.png)

Mixpanel sets a property on the user's profile in Segment indicating whether they are currently part of the cohort.

We send the following identify call to Segment when a user enters the cohort:

```
{
  "type": "identify",
  "traits": {
    "Mixpanel - <Cohort Name in Mixpanel>": true,
  }
  "userId": "user@email.com" // we use the distinct_id property here
}
```
We send the following when a user exits the cohort:

```
{
  "type": "identify",
  "traits": {
    "Mixpanel - <Cohort Name in Mixpanel>": false,
  }
  "userId": "user@email.com" // we use the distinct_id property here
}
```

Commit message:

Addressing Sendbird Feedback 2 (#2354)
* add reference to list property filter toggles and example

* add clarification that delete user profiles does not remove the events associated with the user

* add specific menu path for adjusting sessions settings

* syntax

* include step-by-step on how to delete a board and implications for linked reports

* add callout to reach out if owners are no longer with company

* clarify where to manage cohorts + syntax error

* remove logo from quickstart page

* remove outdated image and add reference to old name for Events tab (live view)

* clarify that assets are not removed when a user is removed

* add specific reference to historical import leading to different metrics when viewing the same report

* add note about changing display names via Lexicon

* add invite limit

* clarify custom webhook as a solution for exporting to non-native cohort sync destinations

* syntax

* update location and screenshot of data deletion

* update cohort sync setup instruction to reflect new UI

---------

Co-authored-by: mherrman <mikey.herrman@mixpanel.com>

pages/docs/cohort-sync/integrations/segment.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Segment

## Overview

 This integration allows you to export Cohorts of users from Mixpanel to Segment so that you can better target users across many downstream connections.
 
 ## Permissions
You must be a Mixpanel project admin to enable the Segment integration.

## Enable the Integration

This connection requires set up on both Segment and Mixpanel.

### Segment Setup

The connection requires a Segment Write Key. You can obtain this key via Segment's UI: 

1. Log into your Segment workspace and click **Sources** under **Connections** in the menu bar on the left.

2. Click **Add Source** button on the right side above the sources table.

3. Search for **Mixpanel Cohorts**, select and hit next

![Segment 1 Image](/segment1.png)

4. Create a Mixpanel Cohorts source.

![Segment 2 Image](/segment2.png)

5. Copy the** Write Key** displayed there.

![Segment 3 Image](/segment3.png)

### Mixpanel Setup

We will use the Write Key from Segment to enable the connection in Mixpanel.

1. Select **Settings > Integrations** tab in the bottom left navigation bar of Mixpanel.
2. Then select Segment, click **Connect**, and paste the** Write Key** that you generated in Segment.

<Callout type="info">
    If you set a User ID Property, it should be a Mixpanel user property that matches the Segment User ID.
</Callout>

![Segment 5 Image](/segment5.png)

3. Click **Continue** to complete the process.

## Export a Cohort

To export a Mixpanel cohort into Segment.

1. Navigate to the **Cohorts** page under **Data Management**.

2. Select the overflow menu on cohort that you want to export and click Export to... → Segment.

![Segment 6 Image](/segment6.png)

3. Select either one-time sync or dynamic sync, Click **Start Sync**.

## Sync Types

There are two types of sync: one-time and dynamic. When you generate a one-time export or dynamic sync, it overwrites the previous export with an updated export that reflects users who qualify for the cohort at the time of export.

### One-Time
In this sync, Mixpanel sends Segment the static set of users who currently qualify for the cohort. The cohort data will not be updated in Segment after a one-time export.

### Dynamic
In dynamic sync, Mixpanel initiates sync between a cohort and Segment every 15 minutes. The exported cohort will be updated every 15 minutes to reflect the most recent list of users in a cohort.

## Verifying in Segment 
Once the export completes, you can open the debugger on the source you created in Segment above and you'll see "identify" calls flowing in for each user that has been added or removed from the cohort.

![Segment 7 Image](/segment7.png)

Mixpanel sets a property on the user's profile in Segment indicating whether they are currently part of the cohort.

We send the following identify call to Segment when a user enters the cohort:

```
{
  "type": "identify",
  "traits": {
    "Mixpanel - <Cohort Name in Mixpanel>": true,
  }
  "userId": "user@email.com" // we use the distinct_id property here
}
```
We send the following when a user exits the cohort:

```
{
  "type": "identify",
  "traits": {
    "Mixpanel - <Cohort Name in Mixpanel>": false,
  }
  "userId": "user@email.com" // we use the distinct_id property here
}
```
