pages/docs/session-replay/heatmaps.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Heatmaps for Web 

## Overview

Heatmaps help you visualize user interactions on your web application, showing where users click the most. This feature enables teams to quickly identify areas of high engagement and friction, helping to optimize user experiences and improve conversion rates.

We offer two types of heatmaps:

1. **Click Maps**: These track clicks on individual site elements, providing precise insights into which modals, dropdowns, or features that users engage with the most. This element-level tracking helps you understand specific component usage.

2. **Traditional Heatmaps**: These overlay general activity on a page based on X,Y coordinates, giving you a broader view of user interaction patterns across the entire page layout.

<Callout type="info">
  Note: Traditional heatmaps may show some inaccuracies on modern websites due to dynamic elements like modals, dropdowns, fixed elements, and cookie banners that change the page layout. Click maps can be used to confirm and clarify these interactions by showing exactly which elements users are engaging with.
</Callout>

Future versions of heatmaps may also include hovers, scroll depth, and other interaction types.

Enabling Heatmaps does not affect billing. They are included with the Session Replay add-on and do not generate additional billable events.

###  How It Works
Heatmaps are powered by Session Replay data and automatically capture click interactions when enabled. Users can generate a Heatmap for specific pages to gain deeper insights into user engagement.

To function, Heatmaps require Session Replay to be enabled, as they rely on session replay data to track and visualize user clicks.

Heatmaps only capture data during sessions with recorded replays. If a page has limited replay coverage, the Heatmap may not offer meaningful insights.

<Callout type="warning">
  When clicks occur very close to page navigation events, the heatmap may occasionally show clicks on the wrong page. This happens because the timing between page changes and click events may not align perfectly. If you notice clicks appearing on the wrong page, try using a different [backdrop](#backdrops) to find the correct page state.
</Callout>

### Implementation

Ensure you have Session Replay set up using our Javascript SDK (see [developer guide on implementing Session Replay](/docs/tracking-methods/sdks/javascript/javascript-replay)), with the `record_heatmap_data` set to `true`. 

Clicks recorded using `record_heatmap_data` will only capture clicks while an a session recording is in progress. These clicks are sent as `$mp_click` and will not be counted against your plan data allowance.

Currently, heatmaps are not available on our Mobile Session Replay SDKs.

**Example Usage**

```javascript Javascript
mixpanel.init('YOUR_PROJECT_TOKEN', {
  record_sessions_percent: 1, // Session Replay enabled, recording 1% of all sessions
  record_heatmap_data: true   // Enable Heatmap data collection
});
```

If you currently use [Autocapture](/docs/tracking-methods/autocapture) to track clicks, you can leverage these clicks to populate the Heatmaps without the `record_heatmap_data` init option.

Clicks captured by Autocapture are billable events that are counted against your plan data allowance.

**Example Usage**

```javascript Javascript
mixpanel.init('YOUR_PROJECT_TOKEN', {
  autocapture: {
    pageview: "full-url",
    click: true, // click tracking enabled
    input: true,
    scroll: true,
    submit: true,
    capture_text_content: false,
  },
  record_sessions_percent: 1 // Session Replay enabled, recording 1% of all sessions
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  Clicks generated by `record_heatmap_data` are exempt from your plan data allowance. Clicks generated by [Autocapture](/docs/tracking-methods/autocapture) are billable events.
</Callout>

### Using Heatmaps

1. From the Home page, find the Heatmaps section.

![heatmap_home.png](/heatmap_home.png)

2. Choose a URL where you want to analyze user interactions and generate a Heatmap.

<Callout type="info">
  You can use wildcard selectors (*) in your URL to group multiple pages into a single heatmap. For example, if your URLs contain unique IDs like `/products/123` and `/products/456`, you can use `/products/*` to analyze all product pages together.
</Callout>

3. To easily navigate back to a created Heatmap, you can click the title to rename the Heatmap.

![heatmap_rename.png](/heatmap_rename.png)

4. Rotate through backdrops to view different states of your application for the same URL.

![heatmap_backdrops.png](/heatmap_backdrops.png)

5. Use the Click Map and Heatmap toggles to show or hide each view. Click Maps help you see exactly which elements users click, which can clarify any inaccuracies in traditional heatmaps caused by dynamic page elements.

6. Click on any element in the Click Map to open a selection menu with three options:
  - **View Events**: View all click events recorded for this element   
  - **View Users**: See a list of users who clicked this specific element 
  - **Review Replays**: Watch session replays of users interacting with this element

![heatmap_selection_menu.png](/heatmap_selection_menu.png)

### Goal Mode

Goal Mode helps you see which UI elements actually drive conversions for any event goal, not just raw clicks. While traditional heatmaps show where users click, Goal Mode reveals whether those clicks lead to meaningful outcomes like signups, purchases, or feature adoption.

To enable Goal Mode, click the **Goal** button in any heatmap. You'll be prompted to configure:

- **Conversion Goal**: A user action deemed valuable to your business, such as a "Purchase" or "Sign Up" event. Select any Mixpanel event as your goal.
- **Conversion Weight Property (Optional)**: An optional numeric property that is used to weight conversions, such as a "Purchase Amount" or "Order Value" property. This allows you to prioritize higher-value conversions.

Once enabled, Goal Mode highlights the UI elements driving the most conversions, giving you a true aggregate visual of how your UI affects your core metrics. For example, you might discover whether a case study on your landing page is generating signups, or just a lot of clicks that don't convert.

<Callout type="info">
  Goal Mode works with any of your existing events and properties directly out of the box—no additional setup required.
</Callout>

### Backdrops

Backdrops are snapshots of your application in various states (such as a modal open, a menu expanded, or different page layouts). Backdrops are pulled from session replays that match the URL you're analyzing, helping you understand how different views or UI states affect user interactions.

Backdrops are subject to the same retention policies as your session replays. Once a session replay expires, it can no longer be used as a backdrop. If you don't see enough backdrops (or can't find the specific view or state you're looking for), consider increasing your session replay sampling rate to capture a wider set of application states.

<Callout type="warning">
  Heatmaps only track scrolling on the main page (window). If your site scrolls inside a nested container (like a div with its own scrollbar), heatmaps and interactive mode may not display data correctly. The interactive backdrops feature lets you customize your backdrop, but click positions within nested scrollable elements will still not be fully reflected.
</Callout>

Commit message:

Double emphasizing when autocapture is free

pages/docs/session-replay/heatmaps.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Heatmaps for Web 

## Overview

Heatmaps help you visualize user interactions on your web application, showing where users click the most. This feature enables teams to quickly identify areas of high engagement and friction, helping to optimize user experiences and improve conversion rates.

We offer two types of heatmaps:

1. **Click Maps**: These track clicks on individual site elements, providing precise insights into which modals, dropdowns, or features that users engage with the most. This element-level tracking helps you understand specific component usage.

2. **Traditional Heatmaps**: These overlay general activity on a page based on X,Y coordinates, giving you a broader view of user interaction patterns across the entire page layout.

<Callout type="info">
  Note: Traditional heatmaps may show some inaccuracies on modern websites due to dynamic elements like modals, dropdowns, fixed elements, and cookie banners that change the page layout. Click maps can be used to confirm and clarify these interactions by showing exactly which elements users are engaging with.
</Callout>

Future versions of heatmaps may also include hovers, scroll depth, and other interaction types.

Enabling Heatmaps does not affect billing. They are included with the Session Replay add-on and do not generate additional billable events.

###  How It Works
Heatmaps are powered by Session Replay data and automatically capture click interactions when enabled. Users can generate a Heatmap for specific pages to gain deeper insights into user engagement.

To function, Heatmaps require Session Replay to be enabled, as they rely on session replay data to track and visualize user clicks.

Heatmaps only capture data during sessions with recorded replays. If a page has limited replay coverage, the Heatmap may not offer meaningful insights.

<Callout type="warning">
  When clicks occur very close to page navigation events, the heatmap may occasionally show clicks on the wrong page. This happens because the timing between page changes and click events may not align perfectly. If you notice clicks appearing on the wrong page, try using a different [backdrop](#backdrops) to find the correct page state.
</Callout>

### Implementation

Ensure you have Session Replay set up using our Javascript SDK (see [developer guide on implementing Session Replay](/docs/tracking-methods/sdks/javascript/javascript-replay)), with the `record_heatmap_data` set to `true`. 

Clicks recorded using `record_heatmap_data` will only capture clicks while an a session recording is in progress. Events generated by `record_heatmap_data` are free only when a session recording is taking place.** These clicks are sent as `$mp_click` and will not be counted against your plan data allowance.

Currently, heatmaps are not available on our Mobile Session Replay SDKs.

**Example Usage**

```javascript Javascript
mixpanel.init('YOUR_PROJECT_TOKEN', {
  record_sessions_percent: 1, // Session Replay enabled, recording 1% of all sessions
  record_heatmap_data: true   // Enable Heatmap data collection
});
```

If you currently use [Autocapture](/docs/tracking-methods/autocapture) to track clicks, you can leverage these clicks to populate the Heatmaps without the `record_heatmap_data` init option.

Clicks captured by Autocapture are billable events that are counted against your plan data allowance.

**Example Usage**

```javascript Javascript
mixpanel.init('YOUR_PROJECT_TOKEN', {
  autocapture: {
    pageview: "full-url",
    click: true, // click tracking enabled
    input: true,
    scroll: true,
    submit: true,
    capture_text_content: false,
  },
  record_sessions_percent: 1 // Session Replay enabled, recording 1% of all sessions
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  Clicks generated by `record_heatmap_data` are exempt from your plan data allowance only when a session recording is taking place. Clicks generated by [Autocapture](/docs/tracking-methods/autocapture) are billable events.
</Callout>

### Using Heatmaps

1. From the Home page, find the Heatmaps section.

![heatmap_home.png](/heatmap_home.png)

2. Choose a URL where you want to analyze user interactions and generate a Heatmap.

<Callout type="info">
  You can use wildcard selectors (*) in your URL to group multiple pages into a single heatmap. For example, if your URLs contain unique IDs like `/products/123` and `/products/456`, you can use `/products/*` to analyze all product pages together.
</Callout>

3. To easily navigate back to a created Heatmap, you can click the title to rename the Heatmap.

![heatmap_rename.png](/heatmap_rename.png)

4. Rotate through backdrops to view different states of your application for the same URL.

![heatmap_backdrops.png](/heatmap_backdrops.png)

5. Use the Click Map and Heatmap toggles to show or hide each view. Click Maps help you see exactly which elements users click, which can clarify any inaccuracies in traditional heatmaps caused by dynamic page elements.

6. Click on any element in the Click Map to open a selection menu with three options:
  - **View Events**: View all click events recorded for this element   
  - **View Users**: See a list of users who clicked this specific element 
  - **Review Replays**: Watch session replays of users interacting with this element

![heatmap_selection_menu.png](/heatmap_selection_menu.png)

### Goal Mode

Goal Mode helps you see which UI elements actually drive conversions for any event goal, not just raw clicks. While traditional heatmaps show where users click, Goal Mode reveals whether those clicks lead to meaningful outcomes like signups, purchases, or feature adoption.

To enable Goal Mode, click the **Goal** button in any heatmap. You'll be prompted to configure:

- **Conversion Goal**: A user action deemed valuable to your business, such as a "Purchase" or "Sign Up" event. Select any Mixpanel event as your goal.
- **Conversion Weight Property (Optional)**: An optional numeric property that is used to weight conversions, such as a "Purchase Amount" or "Order Value" property. This allows you to prioritize higher-value conversions.

Once enabled, Goal Mode highlights the UI elements driving the most conversions, giving you a true aggregate visual of how your UI affects your core metrics. For example, you might discover whether a case study on your landing page is generating signups, or just a lot of clicks that don't convert.

<Callout type="info">
  Goal Mode works with any of your existing events and properties directly out of the box—no additional setup required.
</Callout>

### Backdrops

Backdrops are snapshots of your application in various states (such as a modal open, a menu expanded, or different page layouts). Backdrops are pulled from session replays that match the URL you're analyzing, helping you understand how different views or UI states affect user interactions.

Backdrops are subject to the same retention policies as your session replays. Once a session replay expires, it can no longer be used as a backdrop. If you don't see enough backdrops (or can't find the specific view or state you're looking for), consider increasing your session replay sampling rate to capture a wider set of application states.

<Callout type="warning">
  Heatmaps only track scrolling on the main page (window). If your site scrolls inside a nested container (like a div with its own scrollbar), heatmaps and interactive mode may not display data correctly. The interactive backdrops feature lets you customize your backdrop, but click positions within nested scrollable elements will still not be fully reflected.
</Callout>
